---
title: "The Ultimate Summer Classic"
date: "2019-12-07"
featuredImage: "../images/caprese.jpg"
---

### An easy summer classic...

Now I’d like to switch gears a bit and talk about my other passion, which is food. Not just the eating of it, but also the cooking. I like to think of myself as a pretty decent chef, and am always challenging myself to cook new dishes and cuisines from other countries. Growing up, I was always exposed to a wide variety of cuisines. I grew up in an international household you could say, as my dad is originally from Turkey, and my mom is American (she’s a mixture of Korean, Spanish and Portuguese to be exact). So growing up, it would be quite normal for my mom to make a big batch of spicy Korean tofu stew called Tobujigae, or kimbop, seaweed rolled bites that look similar to sushi. My dad was always the “grill master”, making savory Turkish meatballs called kofte, and grilling them up extra crispy (to this day, I still always prefer the burnt ones). 

My friends always loved coming over to see what my dad or “baba” as they all called him, was grilling. My mom’s meat sauce spaghetti is still hands down, one of my all-time favorite dishes (I am a carb lover through and through). So anyways, you could say that cooking came naturally to me. I started cooking around the age of 13, and it’s something that I’ve always enjoyed from a young age. One of my go-to summer classics is Caprese salad, which is really one of the easiest things you can make and bring to a potluck or prepare at home when you’re short on time. Every summer, I usually make this dish a couple times per week. It basically consists of 3 main ingredients: tomatoes, mozzarella cheese and fresh basil. After washing and slicing the tomatoes, you layer the tomato slices upon a slice of cheese, alternating back and forth, while also wedging fresh basil leaves inside. Lastly, you drizzle it with olive oil, balsamic vinaigrette and a touch of salt and pepper. That’s literally it! The key is finding and using really good quality ingredients. The tomatoes should actually taste like tomatoes, if you know what I mean. The olive oil should be of high quality too (such as cold-pressed virgin olive oil), and the cheese should also be of high quality. I especially like to get Mozzarella di Bufala, which has a really nice creamy texture, and comes from Buffalo milk. You can adapt your salad by adding homemade breadcrumbs, pesto sauce or other additions, but I usually prefer to keep it simple. So why not try this tasty salad at your next shindig? 
