---
title: "The Golden Triangle- New Delhi, Agra and Jaipur"
date: "2019-12-12"
featuredImage: "../images/tajmahal.jpg"
---
### Exploring India

Our next destination takes us to the Golden Triangle which consists of three cities in the northern part of India: New Delhi, Agra and Jaipur. My husband and I were invited as guests to an Indian friend’s wedding. My husband knew the groom as they were friends from their master’s program, and when we were offered the chance to see India, we were thrilled at the opportunity of getting to see an actual Indian wedding. Of course, we needed to secure our visas beforehand. We stayed at a hotel in Gurugram (previously known as Gurgoan), which is a small city close to New Delhi, the Indian capital city. India is a country rich with culture and a vast history. I didn’t expect to see so much Islamic architecture, as it usually came to my mind as more of a Hindu country, but the Islamic influence was prominent in the buildings. Our first day was spent seeing the sights in New Delhi. We visited Qutub Minar, India Gate, and the surrounding area. The air quality is quite poor in New Delhi, and breathing in the smog was uncomfortable. By the end of the day, my throat would burn due to the heavy pollution. To say the city is crowded is an understatement. Imagine a place filled with lots of people, cars, rickshaws, livestock, etc. The level of poverty in the capital was quite evident, as some people were sleeping outside or living in homemade rudimentary structures made of animal manure. It was a bit overwhelming for our first day. 

Interspersed between our daily sightseeing trips, we would attend the many events held on behalf of the groom (as that was the side we were familiar with). We went to a few lovely events, all filled with nice food, colorful garments, dancing, music and celebration. As it was an arranged marriage, the bride and groom mostly spent these events apart, with the wedding being the main event where they would be seen together. 

Later, we went to Agra, where the Taj Mahal is located. A white marble wonder symbolic of love, as the Mughal emperor Shah Jahan built it for his late wife Mumtaz Mahal. Apparently another similar structure was supposed to be built for the Shah across the river from the current Taj Mahal, except in black marble. However, due to over-spending and lack of finances, this plan was canceled and the Shah was locked away by his son. It took 22 years to complete the construction of the Taj Mahal. It is a beautiful structure to be sure, but a bit stoic. I recommend having a knowledgeable guide to tell you about the history of the mausoleum.

On our last day of sight-seeing, we went to Jaipur. Out of the three cities, Jaipur was definitely my favorite. It had a more peaceful tone (as it was less crowded) and it was the only day were I was able to see a clear and open sky! Jaipur had some lovely temples and a fortress with beautiful gardens, along with amazing textiles, like silk shawls, saris, and other fabrics. During our outings, we were warned not to be adventurous when it came to the local food, so we mostly ate at our hotel or places that our friend had recommended. Towards the end of our stay, we celebrated a beautiful wedding and got to see our friend get married in a remarkable ceremony. India has a warm and inviting culture, with a complex and long history. If you’re ever invited to an Indian wedding, it definitely will be like no other! 
