---
title: "The City That Never Sleeps"
date: "2019-12-16"
description: "Life in the Big Apple"
featuredImage: "../images/nyc.jpg"
---

### Life in the Big Apple...

After graduating from Temple University in Philadelphia in 2011, I moved to New York City to help my parents run their retail business. When it comes to NYC, I have many mixed feelings. As I grew up on a farm in southern Pennsylvania with the Amish as my neighbors, it definitely was a big change for me. New York City consists of 5 boroughs- Manhattan, the Bronx, Queens, Brooklyn and Staten Island. I worked in Manhattan (the place that most people think of as “New York”), but lived in Astoria, Queens, which is a mostly residential area with a pre-dominantly Greek population. I would take the subway into “the city” (Manhattan) each day to work at my parents’ vintage boutique in the downtown neighborhood known as Noho. 

Living in NY was not something I ever saw myself doing, as I prefer a much calmer sense of life. The constant fire-engine sirens, traffic and construction noise really makes you want peace and quiet (for me at least). My parents opened the store together back in 2010, so after freshly graduating from college, I moved to help them with their business. My mom always had a passion for vintage and transforming seemingly ordinary items into true works of art. Working in retail was a good opportunity in terms of gaining real customer experience and seeing the day-to-day operations of running a small business. 

In NY, the hustle and bustle is real. Expect many people to be overstressed and running from one job to the next (I also was a cater-waiter on the side, so I know the struggle). In the city, there is an overabundance of homeless people, many with mental health issues. Some of whom, my family and I were on good terms with, as they would help out with our store, moving items around or dusting, in order to make some money. They’d share their life stories with you and how they ended up in their current predicament. 


My parents have now expanded and operate a flea-market in Bushwick, Brooklyn. There you can find one-of-a-kind items ranging from various eras and times (wooden furniture, clothes, bric-a-brac, you name it!). My dad always has an amazing repertoire of vinyl records, my favorite being classic rock (David Bowie all the way). The problem when working in New York City, is that you always seem to take it for granted. After a long work day, there just didn’t seem much time to go out and explore all the amazing things that the city has to offer. However, whenever I did have the spare moment to go explore, I usually liked to go to Central Park for walks, especially in the warmer months. Getting a coffee and sitting in the grass or riding a CitiBike would be quite enjoyable. Also, there are so many great museums to explore (and depending on the day you go, you can pay “the suggested donation” or as I call it “pay what you can afford”, which was always nice). My favorite museums would probably be the Museum of Natural History, located on the west side of Central Park, and the Metropolitan Museum of Art (the latter having some nicely curated fashion exhibits). 

Now NYC in terms of food is really diverse and amazing. I definitely miss the variety and convenience of dining there. Koreatown is one of my favorite areas for food, with my top two restaurants being New Wonjo and Hanbat. Wonjo is focused on Korean barbeque, so I recommend going there for grilled savory meats like Kalbi and Bulgogi. If you’re more into authentic home cooked Korean food, then Hanbat is for you. They have amazing homemade dumplings called Mandugi (fried or steamed options, but I think fried is the best), and spicy stew like Tobujigae. If you’re not so much into Korean cuisine, then Tony’s is my next recommendation. They serve Italian food but in “family” size portions, so the plates are quite literally the size of a small child. If you’re looking for good food on a bit of a budget, then Tony’s is a great option, as one dish can be shared for about 4 people.  

Lastly, if you’re a fan of theater, there are lots of fantastic Broadway shows, which yes, can be quite expensive, but depending on the seat and day/time you choose, can be seen for a reasonable price. I’ve had the chance to see some pretty amazing shows, but would say that Phantom of the Opera is hands-down a must see and classic that I highly recommend to all. So there you have it, some highlights of NYC from my perspective. Of course, there are so many more things that you can do there and different neighborhoods you can explore (the list of things to do is truly never-ending). However, as someone who grew up with the peace and quiet of farm life, after almost 5 years of NYC living, I can definitely say that I prefer living in Izmir more, but as they say “to each his own”. 
