---
title: 'Exploring Andalucía'
date: '2019-12-04'
description: 'Seville, Granada, Cordoba and Malaga'
featuredImage: '../images/spain.JPG'
---
### Adventures in Southern Spain

The next travel destination that I’d like to share is from the southern region of Spain, also known as Andalucía. The first thing I noticed when I got to Spain, were all the olive trees. Field after field are covered with lots of olive trees. It’s a region famous for its olives and exportation of olive oil (I’m a bit biased when it comes to olives, as the olives in Izmir are also amazing). Even in October, the weather was quite warm and pleasant for sight-seeing. It was my first time participating in an actual full-time tour, which was convenient as everything is pretty much planned out for you- where you’ll go, the places you’ll visit, etc. However, it was very much “go go”, so if you’re more into the leisurely pace and enjoy strolling around, then it might not be the best option. 

We started off in Granada, then made our way to Seville, Ronda, Cordoba and Malaga. Throughout these cities, you can see architecture that is heavily influenced by Islamic art, due to the invasion and occupation of the Moors. Granada has the world famous palace known as the Alhambra, which is quite extensive, so wearing comfortable shoes is highly recommended. It’s essentially a fortress with some pretty gardens. Next, we made our way to Seville, the birthplace of flamenco dancing. I highly recommend going to see a live flamenco show if you can, as the dancing was really well-done and the 1.5 hour show seemed to pass by in 15 minutes as it was really enjoyable to watch. Seville, which is the capital of the Andalucía region, has many different sites and is a walkable city. We explored the Cathedral, Alcazar Castle, and La Plaza del Espana. Ronda also had some nice features, like an old Roman bridge and a strong devotion to bullfighting. There is a famous bullfighting ring you can visit called the Plaza del Toros, and there are many statues commemorating famous bullfighters from the ages. We enjoyed some nice seafood tapas after walking around. 

Cordoba was an amazing place, with the Cathedral of Cordoba probably being my favorite site that we visited during our entire trip. It was once a mosque but was later converted into a cathedral, think of it as part museum, part cathedral, part mosque, so it’s a really unique place. The aroma of incense first greets you and there are many archways and pillars with that characteristic rusty red and white stripes everywhere. After our tour of the Mosque, we sat at a nearby restaurant and ate seafood paella after the tour (I know the best paella is from Valencia, but that wasn’t on the itinerary). 
Lastly, I would have to say that my favorite city out the group was probably Malaga, as it reminded me a lot of Izmir, and has a relaxed beach sort of vibe. Malaga is a coastal city and the birthplace of Picasso, so there is a nice museum there if you’re a fan of his artwork. We were allowed to explore ourselves the last day of the tour which was a nice chance for us to just wander around the city without any sort of pre-planned agenda or strict schedule. Southern Spain is a beautiful region filled with lovely olive trees and a rich history, so I highly recommend you consider it for your next holiday. 
